# Grace Hopper Center Web Development / Computer Science Courses

**DE Web Page Design** - You’ll build a beautiful personal portfolio website.
Along the way you’ll become a wiz at using your computer, learn some design
concepts, how the internet works, and a bit about cybersecurity. At the end of
this class, you’ll have a good idea of what you want to study next -
programming, cybersecurity, and/or graphic design. We highly recommend this
course for 9th graders - and it’s the only opportunity for DE credit in 9th
grade.

**DE Computer Programming** (aka DE Programming I)- You’ll use Python to
develop an interactive web application. You’ll build on your skills from Web
Page Design (a strict pre-requisite), learn how interactive web pages work, and
earn your Python certification.

**DE Computer Programming Intensified** (aka DE Programming II)- After becoming
a Python expert in DE Programming I, you’ll expand your programming experience
in a new language! You’ll earn your C++ certification, a powerful, lower-level
programming language. The Spring is more of a math class - you’ll explore the
world of ‘Discrete Math’ - which is very useful in the world of computer
science.

**DE Computer Programming Advanced** (aka DE Programming III) - This class
builds on experience from DE Programming II - we’ll peel back even more layers
to understand how computers work by exploring the Altair 8800- one of the first
ever personal computers. Along the way, we’ll learn machine code, assembly, and
C. In the Spring, you’ll return to C++ to explore algorithms and data
structures - fundamental concepts that will prepare you for a college computer
science major.

**DE Database Design & Management** - In DE Programming I you’re exposed to the
concept of databases. In this class, you’ll become an expert at database
optimization, management, and maintenance. You’ll also explore data
visualization and how databases and data analysis are used in a business
context, learn some data science and machine learning concepts, and play with a
lot of exciting data sets. DE Programming I is a strict pre-requisite - we’ll
assume you’re already very comfortable with Python and already know a bit of
SQL.

